ADS Notebooks
=============

The [Accelerated Data Science (ADS) SDK](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/ads-sdk/latest/index.html) is a data scientist friendly library that helps you speed up common data science tasks and it also provides an interface to other Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) services. This section contains example JupyterLab notebooks that provide tutorials on how to use ADS. For example, the [vault.ipynb](./ads_notebooks/vault.ipynb) notebook shows how easy it is to store you secrets in the [OCI Vault service](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/KeyManagement/Concepts/keyoverview.htm).

# Notebook Descriptions

* [api_keys.ipynb](api_keys.ipynb): A notebook session runs as a user that has no permissions in your tenancy. To access other OCI resources the notebook must be given permission. One way to do this is to register a set of API keys with your account and then provide the private key to your notebook session so that it can authenticate as you. This notebook demonstrates how to do this.
* [model_catalog.ipynb](model_catalog.ipynb): The OCI Data Science service offers a model catalog. It provides centralized storage space to manage your machine learning models. Entities in the model catalog are immutable. They can be shared with others and quickly deployed with the [model deployment](https://docs.content.oci.oracleiaas.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/model-dep-about.htm) service. This notebook demonstrates how to create a model and the necessary model artifacts so that it can be registered with the model catalog.
* [model_deployment.ipynb](model_deployment.ipynb): Once you have created your model it needs to be deployed to production. This is often a challenging task for data scientists. With the [model deployment](https://docs.content.oci.oracleiaas.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/model-dep-about.htm) service this task is simple to perform. The notebook walks you through the steps to create an API endpoint that you can use to make predictions.
* [model_deployment_fn.ipynb](model_deployment_fn.ipynb): While the preferred method to deploy models is the [model deployment](https://docs.content.oci.oracleiaas.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/model-dep-about.htm) service, there may be instances when you want to use [Functions](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Functions/home.htm). This notebook walks you through the end to end process of creating a model, deploying it to Functions and calling the REST API to compute an inference.
* [project.ipynb](project.ipynb): [Projects](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-science/using/manage-projects.htm) are containers used to manage and secure your data science resources. Each project contains a collection of notebooks sessions and models that are associated with a project. This notebook demonstrates the ADS tools to programmatically interface and work with Projects from the notebook session.
* [vault.ipynb](vault.ipynb): Your data is only as secure as your passwords, key and other secrets. The best security practice is to never store this information in your notebook. Anyone with access to the notebook will be able to access your secrets. By having the secrets stored in a notebook, you could accidentally commit them to git. By using the [OCI Vault service](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/KeyManagement/Concepts/keyoverview.htm) you can securely store your secrets and retrieve them at run-time. ADS provides a number of tools that make accessing and storing secrets an easy task. This notebook demonstrates the use of these tools.

